(crickets chirping)
SHINPEI: I know it sounds ridiculous.
But once you... once you see it...
The walking shadow...
(soft gasp)
Wait, oh my gosh, we need to warn Shiori!
The shadow's coming
and it's gonna kill someone.
It's not a superstition!
She could be in danger, right, Shinpei?
SHINPEI: Shiori Kobayakawa
saw her shadow just the same way.
She's in danger.
Hey, we have to go find her right now!
-SHINPEI: But wait.
-(gasps)
I definitely can't let Mio
go anywhere near that kind of danger.
I have to go alone, Mio.
(theme music)
(crickets chirping)
KOBA MART
YOMOGIMOCHI
(exhales deeply)
SHINPEI: Looks like the store is closed.
This is bad. Nothing changed.
-SHIOMI: Hey there!
-(gasps)
Wait. Is that you, Shinpei?
SHINPEI: Mrs. Shiomi!
I'm so sorry for your loss.
Uh, thanks. It's good to see you.
We don't really have
convenience stores here.
You're quite a long way from Tokyo, huh?
Well, I've always been a fan
of this place.
They have green tea ice cream.
(chuckles)
A little taste of home, yeah?
-It looks like it's closed today, though.
-Huh.
Usually, they're open, unless they say
they'll be closed in advance.
3RD GRADE, CLASS 1 SHIORI KOBAYAKAWA
(dings)
-SHIOMI: Hey, Koba? You there? Open up!
-(doorbell dings)
SHIOMI: That's unusual. Are they out?
SHINPEI: Oh.
Oh, I guess they left it unlocked.
Anyone there? Koba? Hello?
You sure it's okay
to just go in like this?
Don't worry about it.
Koba, you here?
(solemn music playing on TV)
Huh, that's weird.
Looks like they even left the TV on.
(breathes sharply)
SHIOMI: Hey, Koba? Koba, you here?
Koba, hello?
Anyone home?
(gasps)
SHIOMI: So weird. Koba! Hello?
SHINPEI: It's the shadow.
The shadow must have done this.
Totsumura's shadow
did the exact same thing to him.
Didn't you see this coming, Shinpei?
You could have done something about it.
You could have saved them, you know.
That's enough! These things are monsters.
I'm not going to get killed again.
All I can do is warn people
and do my best to observe everything
as closely as I can.
So, what have you observed so far today?
The food is untouched and has gone cold.
They were attacked yesterday.
Around dinnertime.
(gasps)
There are deep marks in the floorboards
like something smashed them.
(music continues playing on TV)
What on earth happened here?
Mrs. Shiomi, I'm just gonna take
a quick look upstairs.
SHIOMI: Okay. Sounds good.
SHINPEI: The two dark stains
must be from adults.
They're too big for a child.
I'm guessing
they're from Shiori's parents.
So, where is Shiori, then?
-(trilling)
-(gasps)
(quivering)
(ominous music)
SHADOW SHIORI: Hey.
(shaky breathing)
SHINPEI: That's it.
Do you remember if you saw a girl
who looked like you?
SHADOW SHIORI: Hey, why did you ask me
that yesterday?
SHINPEI: I didn't do that
last time around.
(gasps)
SHADOW SHIORI: You're just standing there
staring at me.
Is there something on my face, or what?
Or is there something weird
about... about my body?
SHINPEI: You bet there is.
Shiori, it's you.
SHINPEI: The shadow I saw at the funeral
must have been Shiori Kobayakawa.
You, uh, got your voice back.
Are you feeling better?
SHINPEI: God, I couldn't come up
with a better question than that?
-SHADOW SHIORI: Oh...
-(static)
Mommy and daddy said
I shouldn't say anything.
Are you gonna answer my question?
Uh, never mind.
(gasps)
No need to answer.
I'll ask you later.
SHINPEI: I think I just caught
the shadow sickness.
No.
I had it from the beginning.
SHIOMI: Shinpei, you okay?
(gasps)
Anyone here? See any sign of them at all?
(door creaks)
Uh...
SHIOMI: What's going on?
You have a stomach ache?
SHINPEI: Uh, no.
So I guess Mrs. Shiomi
just saved my life without knowing it.
Shortly after Mrs. Shiomi
called the police,
I left the Kobayakawas' house.
(pensive music)
If I do nothing until noon,
the same thing will happen.
That woman I met on the ferry,
she has to know something.
Maybe I can figure out a way to save her.
I didn't see her at all this time around,
because the day started at the port.
(breathes heavily)
She had a lot of luggage.
No way she was taking a day trip.
I should check the hotels on the island.
NAKAMURA: A suit?
SHINPEI: Yes. She was wearing a suit,
and had long hair.
Hmm...
She was wearing glasses as well.
Oh.
Did you happen to see her?
Difficult to say. There are always lots
of tourists hanging around
-at this time of year.
-SHINPEI: Um...
She also had...
She also had huge, you know...
Ah! You mean her? Sure, I remember her!
She came by here. How could I forget?
NAKAMURA: Yeah, I'm pretty sure
you said so this morning.
You said you were looking for this woman.
-She had glasses and really big boobs.
-SHINPEI: Huh?
NAKAMURA: She came by,
but she didn't stay overnight.
She didn't stick around long, either.
She just stopped by the cafe for a bit
in the late afternoon.
You should hang out for a while, too,
check out our cafe.
SHINPEI: I tried, but that woman
was impossible to track down,
I just couldn't seem to find her anywhere.
There's only so much
that I can do on my own.
BISTRO KOFUNE
LUNCH SPECIALS
(bell chimes)
Hi, how are you?
Oh, Shin-chan.
So how'd it go? How is Shiori?
SHINPEI: Oh... Mm...
Ah!
MIO: Hello, good morning!
SHINPEI: Totsumura.
It's so damn hot out. Hey!
Listen, Shinpei, what was the deal
with that call last night?
You straight-up lied!
You said there was a bar fight!
Can I get you your usual,
the Lunch Special
with fried shrimp and rice?
-Wow, you know me pretty well, kid.
-(Mio chuckling)
Huh? They disappeared?
The Kobayakawa family? As in, all of them?
TETSU: That's right.
Seriously? Shin-chan?
Yeah.
You know, I heard you went
inside their place with Mrs. Shiomi.
SHINPEI: Oh, yes.
TETSU: You can tell me about it later.
That's really strange,
considering I had a conversation
with Kobayakawa just yesterday.
TETSU: Oh, is that right?
You know, I really can't go
into details yet,
but a detective is coming
on the very first ferry this afternoon.
SHINPEI:
His response is different from before.
That's good,
it's probably because I stopped
his shadow from killing him.
This is the real Totsumura.
Oh, yeah, I forgot,
I'm supposed to give you this. Here.
-Huh?
(Mio gasps)
That was my sister's phone.
(gasps)
Ushio came to see me,
so I wound up talking to her
the day before she died,
and she asked me to hold onto it for her.
TETSU: But she wanted me to give it to you
if anything ever happened to her.
SHINPEI: Ushio left this for me?
TETSU: It was like
she could see the future.
Like she knew exactly
what would happen to her.
SHINPEI: Things are getting
more and more complicated.
(bell chimes)
Hi there, Shinpei.
Uh, sorry, I'm not too early, am I?
(chuckles)
No, I was waiting.
SHINPEI: I know I can trust Sou.
I'll tell him about everything.
(crickets chirping)
SHINPEI: So that's why... I think her...
Do you think it was Shiori's shadow
that killed Ushio.
Is that what you're trying
to tell me, Shinpei?
Uh, that's right.
The ligature marks prove two things,
she was strangled,
and only one person was there at the time.
Do you think
it's going to come after Mio next?
SHINPEI: Yes.
Can you tell shadows and people apart,
simply by looking at them?
No.
-SHINPEI: I couldn't tell the difference.
-SOU: Hmm...
Oh, man. That's not a good sign.
So for all I know,
you might be a shadow yourself,
pretending to be the real Shinpei.
(gasps softly)
(dramatic music)
Yeah, but I could say the same about you.
(Sou grunts)
What are you talking about?
Who's a... Who's a shadow?
Just calm down, Mio.
It'll be okay.
Hmm.
They show up on camera,
so they must be living things, right?
Not ghosts or phantoms or something.
If they're alive, there must be
a way to kill them, right, Shinpei?
(gasps)
That's right.
Wait, Shin-chan,
why don't we go to Hiruko now?
Mr. Karikiri knows
all about the history of the island.
Maybe he knows
something about shadows, too.
SHINPEI: That's right,
Mio and I were trying to visit Hiruko
the first time around, too.
It's dangerous!
That's where we ran into the shadow.
It was right by the shrine!
(gunshot)
Uh, maybe tomorrow?
Tomorrow?
But isn't that the summer festival?
SHINPEI: Oh, the summer festival.
I knew it. I figured you'd forget.
You know,
tomorrow is the busiest day of the year,
everyone will be at the shrine.
SOU: There'll be so many people,
the priest won't have time for us.
SHINPEI: Actually, the more people,
the safer it should be
for us to visit the shrine.
The summer festival
is the perfect time for us to go.
SOU: I'll be at Kofune
at around five o'clock tomorrow.
Let's decide on a code word,
just something that will help me tell,
you know, whether you're a shadow or not.
Oh.
-SOU: If I say "mountain," you say...
-SHINPEI: "River"?
SOU: That's too obvious.
SHINPEI: Oh.
Uh, how about Tigris-Euphrates?
SOU: Have any ideas
that aren't rivers, Shinpei?
MIO: How about "Mesopotamia"?
SOU: That's a good one, Mio!
"Mesopotamia" it is!
SHINPEI: Are these two joking right now?
Thanks a lot, Sou,
I appreciate you trusting me.
SOU: Mm.
(scoffs)
We're buddies, remember?
You trusted me enough to tell me.
That's no small things.
SHINPEI: You still can't trust him
completely yet.
At least not until you find a way
to tell shadows and people apart.
You always expect the worst from people.
(sighs)
By the way, there's something
I've been meaning to check out.
SOU: I'll be sure to let you know
if I find anything.
(thunder rumbles)
MIO: Oh! We're getting soaked!
(Mio pants)
(sighs)
This definitely wasn't in the forecast.
-Hm?
-SHINPEI: Oh.
(Shinpei grunts)
(exhales heavily)
HITO SUMMER FESTIVAL
JULY 24, 2018
MIO: Shin-chan.
Hm?
How long do you think
you'll stick around here?
Oh, well, you know...
I was thinking I would leave
pretty much right after the funeral,
but I'm not sure.
(breathes sharply)
MIO: I think you should stay forever.
Forever?
Oh. Never mind. I... That was stupid.
I didn't mean that.
MIO: I was just kidding.
Oh, here, you should take this.
Here, go ahead.
Sis was wearing this necklace
when she died.
I'm sure she'd want you to have it.
It's yours. Keep it somewhere safe.
Oh, thanks a lot.
(gasps softly)
SHINPEI: Is it her birthday?
INPUT PASSWORD
That's not it.
(knocks on door)
SOU: Mountain.
Huh?
You have to say "Mesopotania," remember?
Ah. Is it time to go already?
God. You're such a party pooper.
At least we know it's the real you.
Shinpei, whoa! Go put some pants on!
-SHINPEI: Sorry, whoops, sorry, Toki!
-(clothes rustling)
Just hurry up and get changed.
We're pretty much ready to go.
Right, Mio?
(gasps)
(dreamy music)
Do I look okay?
It's just that this is my first time
wearing a yukata.
You look so--
You look fantastic!
How is it? Tokiko dressed Mio herself.
Don't you think it might help us
to tell her apart from her shadow?
Yeah, it's possible.
Are you sure it looks okay?
SOU: I still haven't told Tokiko
anything you told me.
SHINPEI: Good.
I think that's for the best.
Oh, yeah, I forgot to ask,
what exactly were you looking into?
Did you find anything?
Oh, yesterday?
Don't worry, that was nothing important.
-Just forget about it.
-(groans)
All right, Let's quit chatting
and get outta here.
Come on, Ushio must be waiting for us.
Yes, that's right. I know
that Sis was really looking forward
to the summer festival.
I'm sure she'll be there today in spirit.
Come on, let's get going.
Today is for her.
SHINPEI: Sou, don't you want
to be a doctor?
You're starting
to sound pretty superstitious.
(waves crashing)
(indistinct chatter)
GYOKURINEN GREEN TEA ICE CREAM
Listen, Sou.
Hm?
SHINPEI: It's been two years
since I left the island.
I thought I had matured a little bit,
I thought I'd grown up,
but I'm still totally helpless.
I couldn't be here with her
when she really needed me.
I promised I'd do anything
to keep her safe.
SOU: You idiot!
Ushio died, but it sure
wasn't because of you!
Keep it together, Shinpei!
Right now, you need to focus
on protecting Mio!
Shinpei, you're her brother,
for god's sake!
I know that, I'm not a moron.
(grunts)
SOU: If you think
you're not up for the job,
if you can't do it,
you should leave Mio to me.
SHINPEI:
Sou, do you still have feelings for Mio?
(munches)
-SOU: What the hell do you care?
-(gasps)
-MIO: Hey. What are you chatting about?
-(both gasp)
(Sou clears throat)
-Mm?
-SHINPEI: Ah, nothing, really.
We were debating
whether we liked boobs or butts.
Hey!
-MIO: Ew, creepy.
-SHINPEI: No, no, no!
Shinpei, your ice cream is melting.
(yelps)
I'm telling you,
he's lying through his teeth!
Actually, I'm sort of curious
what you said.
Huh?
Well, I heard the other day you barged in
on Mio while she was taking a bath.
(both whimper)
What? What the hell is wrong
with you, Shinpei?
Take this!
Oh, Shinpei, I wonder
what you really think about Mio?
(gasps)
What do you mean, huh, Tokiko?
(coughs)
SHINPEI: What do I think of her?
Well, obviously, I care a lot about her.
We're family.
Oh, you're family, huh?
What're you... Stop, Tokiko!
Don't ask him weird things like that.
Shinpei, my old man just gave me a call.
After the fireworks
and the customary goodbye ceremony,
Mr. Karikiri should be available.
Okay. All right. So until then...
(gasps)
SOU: Hm? What's up, Shinpei?
(soft gasp)
SHINPEI: Right there, I just saw...
Why don't we go a little further in?
We'll see the fireworks
a lot better from there.
-(Shinpei gasps)
-ALL: Huh?
SHINPEI: Sorry. I'll catch up with you.
SOU: H-Hey! Shinpei!
SHINPEI: Please look after Mio!
Huh? Where is he going? Number two?
(Shinpei panting)
Excuse me. Coming through.
Sorry about that.
SOU: Ushio must be waiting for us.
(Shinpei panting)
MIO: Sis was really looking forward
to the summer festival.
I'm sure she'll be there today in spirit.
(panting)
(grunts)
USHIO: Hey, Shinpei.
(gasps)
USHIO: You have to find me, okay?
Please don't forget.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Ushio.